DOCS-8034-vm-reorganization-kt (#1038)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: vm/2.0/modules/ROOT/pages/vm-studio-configuration.adoc

== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these input sources to use with VM Connector:

* *VM Listener*, which initiates a flow by listening on a VM queue
* *HTTP Listener*, which initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler*, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure a *VM Listener* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *VM > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a VM queue that can be used by all instances of the *Listener* source and other VM Connector operations in the app.
. <<configure-global-element,Define the VQ queue>>.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, set the *Number of consumers* field to your desired value (default `4`). +
. In the *Queue* section, select a *Queue name* from the drop-down menu. +
If you previously created a VM queue, the *Queue name* value appears automatically.

> . Set the *Timeout* to your desired value (defaults `5`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify a value for the *Timeout* (default is `5`).
```

= Use Studio to Configure VM Connector 2.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra line break?

> If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:vm-reference.adoc[VM Connector Reference].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see xref:vm-reference.adoc[VM Connector Reference].
```

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

> Add <connector name> to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add VM Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `vm connector` in the search field.
. Click *VM Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.

> You can configure one of these input sources to use with <connector name>:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure one of these input sources to use with VM Connector:
```

> * *VM Listener*, which initiates a flow by listening on a VM queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *VM Listener*, which initiates a flow by listening on a VM queue
```

* *HTTP Listener*, which initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler*, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure a *VM Listener* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *VM > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a VM queue that can be used by all instances of the *Listener* source and other VM Connector operations in the app.

> . <<configure-global-element,Define the VQ queue>>

Reviewer 2: Is this a peer step or a parent step to following substeps?
Also, it should end with a period:
```suggestion
. <<configure-global-element,Define the VQ queue>>.
```

> . On the *Listener* configuration screen, set the *Number of consumers* field to your desired value. Defaults to `4`. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, set the *Number of consumers* field to your desired value. 
+
The default is `4`. +
```
OR
```suggestion
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, set the *Number of consumers* field to your desired value (default `4`). 
```

> . In the *Queue* section, select a *Queue name* from the drop-down box. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Queue* section, select a *Queue name* from the drop-down menu. +
```

If you previously created a VM queue, the *Queue name* value appears automatically.

> . Set the *Timeout* to your desired value. Defaults to `5`.

Reviewer 2: Ditto edits above, Line 58

> . Select a *Timeout unit* from the drop-down box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select a *Timeout unit* from the drop-down menu.
```
Does the template say "box"? Because we typically select from a menu, and "drop-down" typically precedes "menu."

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for VM Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *VM Connector* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector
When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. A VM Connector global configuration defines the queues on which the connector operates. You can define any number of configurations, each with its own set of queues. +

> Each queue defined within a given VM Connector configuration can be used only by operations referencing that specific configuration. A *Queue name* cannot be repeated across configurations, and two queues with the same name can not exist in the same app or domain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each queue defined within a given VM Connector configuration can be used only by operations referencing that specific configuration. A *Queue name* value cannot be repeated across configurations, and two queues with the same name can not exist in the same app or domain.
```
OR
```suggestion
Each queue defined within a given VM Connector configuration can be used only by operations referencing that specific configuration. A queue name cannot be repeated across configurations, and two queues with the same name can not exist in the same app or domain.
```

To configure the global element for VM Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.

> . In the *General* section, for the *Queues* drop-down box select either:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *General* section, in the *Queues* drop-down menu select either:
```

* `Bean reference` +
.. In the *Bean reference* field, add your desired reference value.
* `Edit inline` +

> .. In the *Queues* box, click the plus sign (+) to add a new queue.

Reviewer 2: menu?

> .. In the *Queue* window, add a *Queue name*, set *Queue type* to either `TRANSIENT (Default)` or `PERSISTENT`, and add a value for *Max outstanding messages*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. In the *Queue* window, add a *Queue name* value, set *Queue type* to either `TRANSIENT (Default)` or `PERSISTENT`, and add a value for *Max outstanding messages*.
```

.. Click *Finish*.

[start=4]
. In the *Connection* section, optionally configure a reconnection strategy.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally configure an expiration policy.
. Click *OK*.

The following screenshot shows an example of configuring the VM Connector:

.VM Connector Configuration
image::vm-studio-config1.png[VM Connector Configuration]

The following screenshot shows an example of configuring the VM queue:

.VM Queue Configuration
image::vm-studio-config2.png[VM Queue Configuration]

> In the XML editor, the VM Connector configuration looks like this:

Reviewer 2: "the" is OK here because it refers to "configuration", not "VM Connector" (per edit Line 31)
